.\" File generated using by MAQAO.
.TH MAQAO-LPROF "1" "2022/11/16" "MAQAO-LPROF 2.16.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maqao-lprof \- manual page for maqao lprof module.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.br
	Data collection mode : maqao lprof [options] -- <APPLICATION> [arguments, if any]
.br
	Data display mode    : maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> [--display-functions | --display-loops | --display-blocks ] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION

.br
The MAQAO Lightweight Profiler (LProf) allows profiling of target applications to detect hot functions and loops in 2 steps.
.br
	1) Data collection (sampling)
.br
	2) Data display
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-xp\fR, \fB\-\-experiment-path\fR\=<path>
Experiment directory where the collected data is stored. It is generated in the current directory during data collection step. 
.br
If not specified, a default pattern will be used: maqao_lprof_YYYY-MM-DD-hh-mm-ss. 
.br
Y: year, M: month, D: day, h: hour, m: minute, s: second. 
.br
/!\ Warning: at display, this directory is used to load the collected data and is a mandatory parameter.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increases verbosity of stdout/stderr messages.
.TP
\fB\-\-mute\fR
Silents stdout/stderr messages at collect and display (CSV/HTML) steps.
.SH "    DATA COLLECTION (MAIN OPTIONS)"
.TP
\fB\-\-include-kernel\fR
No effect with the 'no-perf' engine. Count kernel samples.
.TP
\fB\-mc\fR, \fB\-\-mpi-command\fR\=<MPI command>
MPI command used to interactively run application. LProf prepends this to application command. ppn/processes-per-node is recommended if known and > 1. When combined with batch-script, substitutes <mpi_command> in job script
.TP
\fB\-bs\fR, \fB\-\-batch-script\fR\=<path to batch script>
Batch script used to run application. LProf submits this file to <batch-command>. In this script, replace application run command with "<run_command>".
.TP
\fB\-bc\fR, \fB\-\-batch-command\fR\=<batch submission command>
Tell LProf how to submit <batch-script>. If omitted, guessed from <batch-script> extension.
.TP
\fB\-\-stdin-path\fR\=<path to a stdin-redirection file>
Defines a file for redirection to stdin.
.TP
\fB\-\-sampling-rate\fR\=lowest/low/medium/high/highest
Change the sampling rate (collected samples per second). 
.br
Five rates are available depending on the execution time of the application: 
.br
  - highest (2000 Hz): less than one second (btm=off recommended) 
.br
  - high    (1000 Hz): few seconds (avoid btm=stack: too high overhead) 
.br
  - medium  ( 200 Hz): less than one minute (default) 
.br
  - low     (  50 Hz): few minutes 
.br
  - lowest  (  10 Hz): longer runs
.TP
\fB\-ldi\fR, \fB\-\-library-debug-info\fR\=<list>/on/off
Analyze libraries debug information to locate loops with the --display-loops option, and also retrieve inlined library functions. 
.br
Libraries need to be compiled with the -g option. 
.br
Allowed values are: 
.br
  - "lib1.so, lib2.so, ..." : Get loops information only for libraries in the list. Use names as displayed by ldd <application executable>. 
.br
  - on                      : Get loops information for all libraries. 
.br
  - off                     : Get only functions information using ELF information for all libraries (default). 
.br

.br
/!\ Warning: this option can increase the analysis overhead.
.TP
\fB\-ug\fR, \fB\-\-user-guided\fR\=<delay (seconds)> (timer mode) / on (signal mode)
[perf-* engines] Allow user to control the sampling in two modes: 
.br
  - timer mode  : user-defined delay (in seconds) before the data collection process. 
.br
                  May be useful to ignore the initialization step of an application. 
.br
  - signal mode : use SIGTSTP signal (CTRL+Z) to pause/resume the data collection process 
.br
                  Can be used as many times as necessary during the run of the application.
.TP
\fB\-btm\fR, \fB\-\-backtrace-mode\fR\=fp/stack/branch/off
[Advanced] Select backtraces (callchains) collection method: 
.br
  - fp     : native, frame-pointer based, perf-events method (default). 
.br
             Requires compilation with -fno-omit-frame-pointer. 
.br
  - stack  : user stack unwinding (since Linux 3.7). 
.br
             Higher sampling overhead but no need to recompile. 
.br
  - branch : use hardware branch recording (since Linux 3.4). 
.br
             No need to recompile. In the current version, this will display the history of the last calls instead of the full callchain. 
.br
  - off    : disable backtraces collection. 
.br
             Reduces sampling overhead and experiment directory size but some 
.br
             OpenMP/MPI functions will no more be correctly categorized at display.
.SH "    DATA COLLECTION (OTHER OPTIONS)"
.TP
\fB\-\-use-OS-timers\fR
Use OS timers instead of hardware events. Needed in case of unavailable HW counters or undetected processor.
.TP
\fB\-\-cpu-clock-MHz\fR\=<number>
[perf-* engines] Override the "cpu-clock" perf-event rate (in MHz) measured by a calibration loop.
.TP
\fB\-\-ref-cycles-MHz\fR\=<number>
[perf-* engines] Override the "ref-cycles" perf-event rate (in MHz) measured by a calibration loop.
.TP
\fB\-cd\fR, \fB\-\-check-directory\fR\=on/off
Disable checking if the specified experiment directory already exists. 
.br
By default, a check is always performed to avoid modifying an existing experiment directory.
.TP
\fB\-tpp\fR, \fB\-\-maximum-threads-per-process\fR\=<integer>
[perf-high-ppn only] Maximum number of concurrent threads per process. Default is OMP_NUM_THREADS. Used to set buffers and files size.
.TP
\fB\-ppn\fR, \fB\-\-maximum-processes-per-node\fR\=<integer>
Maximum number of processes per node, to use with mpi-command, recommended if known and > 1. Used to set buffers and files size. engine=perf-low-ppn cannot be used with ppn > 4.
.TP
\fB\-\-maximum-buffer-megabytes\fR\=<integer>
Limit size of RAM buffers to X Megabytes per node. Default is 50 MB per CPU (HW thread).
.TP
\fB\-\-maximum-tmpfiles-megabytes\fR\=<integer>
Limit total temporary files size to X Megabytes per node. Default is 100 MB per CPU (HW thread).
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-evts\fR\=<list>
Provide a custom list of events (maqao --list-events) to profile. 
.br
For each event, the threshold value should be set using format "@VALUE". 
.br
Raw codes can be used as well as event names. 
.br
ex: evts=CPU_CLK_UNHALTED@1000000,0x412e@1000000,INST_RETIRED@500000
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-evts-profiles\fR\=<string>
Use ready-to-use lists of events. Not yet supporting more than one profile.
.TP
\fB\-\-max-callchain-length\fR[\=<positive integer>]
Maximum callchain length (default: 20), useful to reduce btm=stack overhead.
.TP
\fB\-\-stack-size\fR
Size (in bytes) of stack to dump on samples (default: 8192). 
.br
Using a smaller size (typically 4096) reduces profiling overhead but may cut (or loose) callchains. 
.br
Using a bigger size (typically 16384) increases profiling overhead but should guarantee minimal callchains loss.
.TP
\fB\-\-mmap-pages\fR
Overrides autotuned number of mmap pages for ring buffer payload.
.TP
\fB\-\-collect-calls-info\fR\=[on]/off
Collects source file/line information for callchain nodes (calls). To display them, add --use-calls-info=on at display step.
.TP
\fB\-\-engine\fR\=no-perf/perf-low-ppn/perf-high-ppn
[Advanced] Enforces usage of a specific sampling engine:  - no-perf: auto-selected when Linux-perf is not supported on the running kernel or when 'sysctl kernel.perf_event_paranoid' displays 3 or higher. Use ptrace() and periodic signal to read the PC register for all application threads. Only active/running time is accounted (excluding sleep/wait time) (to include sleep time, use --include-sleep-time). Hardware events and callchains cannot be collected. Profiling overhead is higher than the other engines. Hence it should be used only when regular engines cannot operate.  - perf-low-ppn: auto-selected when Linux-perf is available/allowed and with max 4 processes per node. Use the Linux kernel to collect SW/HW events and to follow child threads/processes (inherit mode). This is the recommended engine  - perf-high-ppn: auto-selected when Linux-perf is available/allowed and with more than 4 processes per node. Use the Linux kernel to collect SW/HW events but ptrace() to follow child threads/processes.
.TP
\fB\-\-include-sleep-time\fR
[no-perf only] Include sleep time (walltime).
.TP
\fB\-\-keep-external-threads\fR\=on/[off]
[perf-high-ppn engine only] Profile threads with a different command line than the monitored application.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep-indirect-threads\fR\=[on]/off
[perf-high-ppn engine only] Profile threads that are not direct children of the monitored application.
.TP
\fB\-cpu\fR, \fB\-\-cpu-list\fR\=<comma-separated list of integers>
Set CPU affinity for the target process. Ex: 0,2 to use CPU0 and CPU2.
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore-signals\fR\=<comma-separated list of integers>
[no-perf and perf-high-ppn engines] Prevents signals from being interpreted as termination signals. Allows to adapt no-perf and perf-high-ppn to various runtimes. Remark: for ignored signals also specified in set-exit-signals or set-abort-signals, evaluation order is set-abort-signals, set-exit-signals and then ignore-signals.
.TP
\fB\-\-set-exit-signals\fR\=<comma-separated list of integers>
[no-perf and perf-high-ppn engines] Interpret signals as normal application exit. Allows to adapt no-perf and perf-high-ppn engines to various runtimes. Remark: for exit signals also specified in ignore-signals or set-abort-signals, evaluation order is set-abort-signals, set-exit-signals and then ignore-signals.
.TP
\fB\-\-set-abort-signals\fR\=<comma-separated list of integers>
[no-perf and perf-high-ppn engines] Interpret signals as abnormal application exit. Allows to adapt no-perf and perf-high-ppn engines to various runtimes. Remark: for abort signals also specified in ignore-signals or set-exit-signals, evaluation order is set-abort-signals, set-exit-signals and then ignore-signals.
.TP
\fB\-\-legacy-maps\fR\=<positive integer> [ADVANCED]
Use only if unknown functions coverage is high for executable or libraries. Collect maps via legacy method (out of perf-events) after <legacy-maps> milliseconds and fallback to them in case of unresolved addresses.
.TP
\fB\-\-maximum-CPU-time-intervals\fR\=<positive integer> [ADVANCED]
[perf-low-ppn and perf-high-ppn engines] Maximum number of per-thread CPU-time intervals. Allows to trace when and where (CPU) threads was running, and display them  by adding -verbose at display step.
.SH "    DATA DISPLAY (MAIN OPTIONS)"
.TP
\fB\-df\fR, \fB\-\-display-functions\fR
Display the exclusive time spent in the application, libraries and system functions.
.TP
\fB\-dl\fR, \fB\-\-display-loops\fR
Display the exclusive time spent in the application loops. 
.br
If used with library-debug-information option during the collection, library loops information will be displayed too.
.TP
\fB\-db\fR, \fB\-\-display-blocks\fR
Display the exclusive time spent in the application basic-blocks. 
.br
If used with library-debug-information option during the collection, library blocks information will be displayed too.
.TP
\fB\-dn\fR, \fB\-\-display-nodes\fR
Information is displayed at node-level. 
.br
The categorization table shows the time percentage for each of the categories below: 
.br
  - Application   : application executable. 
.br
  - MPI           : MPI runtime (openmpi, mpich, intel mpi,...). 
.br
  - OMP           : OpenMP runtime (gomp, iomp...). 
.br
  - Math          : Math libraries (libm, libmkl, libblas...). 
.br
  - System        : system interface (linux system calls). 
.br
  - Pthread       : Pthread runtime. 
.br
  - I/O           : I/O functions. 
.br
  - String        : string manipulation functions (strcpy, trim...). 
.br
  - Memory        : memory management functions (malloc, free...). 
.br
  - Others        : functions that are not of the categories above.
.TP
\fB\-dp\fR, \fB\-\-display-processes\fR
Information is displayed at process-level. See display-nodes for categories.
.TP
\fB\-dt\fR, \fB\-\-display-threads\fR
Information is displayed at thread-level. See display-nodes for categories.
.TP
\fB\-lec\fR, \fB\-\-libraries-extra-categories\fR\=<comma-separated list>
Consider specified libraries as extra categories. Use libraries names as given by 'ldd <application>'.
.TP
\fB\-of\fR, \fB\-\-output-format\fR\=html/csv
Output results in a file of the given format: 
.br
  - html : generate a web page in <PROFILING_DIRECTORY>/html directory. Open html/index.html in a web browser to view the results. 
.br
  - csv  : generate a csv file for each thread (default name: <CURRENT_DIRECTORY>/maqao_<NODE-NAME>_<THREAD-ID>.csv).
.TP
\fB\-cc\fR, \fB\-\-callchain\fR\=exe/lib/all/off
Specify objects for callchains analysis: 
.br
  - exe: display the callchain (if available) for each function with a scope limited to the application. 
.br
  - lib: extend the callchain scope to external libraries function calls. 
.br
  - all: display the callchain with no limited scope (application + libraries + system calls). 
.br
  - off: disable callchains analysis. Some OpenMP/MPI functions/loops will no more be correctly categorized. Use this only when display takes too much time/memory.
.TP
\fB\-ct\fR, \fB\-\-cumulative-threshold\fR\=<integer between 0 and 100>
Display the top loops/functions which cumulative percentage is greater than the given value (e.g: ct=50).
.SH "    DATA DISPLAY (OTHER OPTIONS)"
.TP
\fB\-op\fR, \fB\-\-output-path\fR\=<path> [SHOULD BE USED WITH THE output-format OPTION]
Specifiy the path of the generated results files.
.TP
\fB\-\-output-prefix\fR\=<string> [SHOULD BE USED WITH THE output-format OPTION]
Add a custom prefix to the generated results files.
.TP
\fB\-\-show-full-paths\fR
For module and source files, display full path instead of basename.
.TP
\fB\-\-use-calls-info\fR\=[on]/off
Use source file/line information for callchain nodes (calls). At collect step, add --collect-calls-info=on.
.TP
\fB\-ssv\fR, \fB\-\-show-samples-value\fR\=on/off (default)
Display the number of samples collected (in between brackets).
.TP
\fB\-\-display-raw-events\fR
Use raw event counts instead of default metrics (coverage, walltime...)
.TP
\fB\-fec\fR, \fB\-\-functions-extra-categories\fR\=<comma-separated list>
Consider specified groups of functions as extra categories. Applied after libraries-extra-categories Rule name (supported: mkl for Intel MKL functions).
.TP
\fB\-cwf\fR, \fB\-\-callchain-weight-filter\fR\=<integer between 0 and 100>
Filter callchains that don't represent at least X percent of time in the function reference
.TP
\fB\-\-disable-callchain-categorization\fR
[ADVANCED] No more refine categorization from callchains.
.TP
\fB\-\-thread-time-filter\fR\=<real number >= 0> (default = 0.01) [ADVANCED]
During profile generation, ignore contribution from threads lasting less than X seconds. Use this option to control pollution from micro-threads, typically cloned by system ("<cmd>") calls.
.TP
\fB\-\-function-weight-filter\fR\=<real number between 0 and 100> [ADVANCED]
During profile generation, ignore contribution from functions that represent less than X percent of thread time. Aggregated (e.g node level) contributions will consequently be slightly underestimated, especially with X > 0.1. Use this option to reduce memory footprint for wide workloads, during profile generation and display steps.
.TP
\fB\-\-loop-weight-filter\fR\=<real number between 0 and 100> [ADVANCED]
Idem function-weight-filter but for loops.
.TP
\fB\-\-function-name-filter\fR\=<substring to lookup> [ADVANCED]
During profile generation, ignore regions whose function name contains a given substring. For C++ functions, lookup is done on the demangled name.
.TP
\fB\-\-disable-kernel-merge\fR
[ADVANCED] Disable symbols merging for kernels similar between nodes.
.TP
\fB\-\-time-format\fR
[ADVANCED] Format to use when displaying times, for instance "%.03f".
.SH "    MAN PAGE"
.TP
\fB\-\-generate-man\fR
Generate the man page of the module based on the module help in the current directory. The generated file is called maqao-<module>.1. Once the man page is generated, the program exits.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR\=<path>
Specify the path where the man page is generated.
.TP
\fB\-\-generate-wiki\fR
Generate the wiki page of the module based on the module help on the standard output. Once the man page is generated, the program exits.
.SH "    OPTIONAL FLAGS COMMON TO ALL MODULES"
.TP
\fB\-\-disable-debug\fR
Disable debug data loading. WARNING, this option may alter the tool's accuracy.
.TP
\fB\-\-compiler\fR\=<compiler>
Select the compiler used to create the binary. Available values are: 
GNU, Intel.

.TP
\fB\-\-language\fR\=<language>
Select the source language. Available values are: 
c, c++, fortran.

.TP
\fB\-\-lcore-flow-all\fR
Analyze all instructions returned by MADRAS. Default behaviour is to analyze instructions from sections .text, .init, .fini and .madras.code. 
.TP
\fB\-\-uarch\fR\=<uarch>
Select the micro architecture used for analysis. Available values are: 
.TP 20 
\fB       For x86_64 architecture:\fR 
CORE (CORE2_65), ENHANCED_CORE (CORE2_45), NEHALEM (NHM), WESTMERE, SANDY_BRIDGE (SNB), IVY_BRIDGE (IVB),             IVY_BRIDGE_E (IVBE), HASWELL (HWL), BROADWELL (BWL), SKYLAKE, ICELAKE, ICELAKE_SP,             TIGER_LAKE, ROCKET_LAKE, ALDER_LAKE, SAPPHIRE_RAPIDS, RAPTOR_LAKE, HASWELL_E (HWLE),             KNIGHTS_LANDING (KNL), KNIGHTS_MILL (KNM), KABY_LAKE, COMET_LAKE, ZEN_V1 (ZEN), ZEN_PLUS (ZEN+),             ZEN_V2 (ZEN2), ZEN_V3 (ZEN3)
.
.SH ""
.TP
\fB\-\-proc\fR\=<proc>
Select the processor model used for analysis. maqao --list-procs to display supported processors
.TP
\fB\-ifr\fR, \fB\-\-interleaved-functions-recognition\fR\=<mode>
Select the mode of interleaved functions recognition. Available values are: 
.TP 20 
\fB       off\fR 
Functions are not extracted from connected components.
.TP 20 
\fB       debug_based\fR  (default)
Functions are extracted from connected components matching with debug data.
.TP 20 
\fB       all\fR 
All connected components are extracted into new functions whether they correspond to the debug information or not.
.
.SH ""
.TP
\fB\-dbg\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR[\=<level>]
Enable debug messages. <level> can be used to specify the level of debug messages to display. Available values are: 
0, 1 (default).

.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
Specify binary parameters for dynamic analysis. Next options are ignored by MAQAO.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print the current help.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the current version.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
maqao lprof -- <APPLICATION>
Launch the profiler in collect sampling mode on a sequential application. 
.br
It stores the results into a default experiment directory (maqao_lprof_YYYY-MM-DD-hh-mm-ss). 
.br
Y: year, M: month, D: day, h: hour, m: minute, s: second 
.TP
maqao lprof --mpi-command="mpirun -n 4" ppn=X -- <APPLICATION>
Same as previous example but for MPI application with 4 processes (X per node). 
.TP
maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> [--mpi-command="mpirun -n 4" ppn=X] -- <APPLICATION>  arg1 arg2 ...
If the application needs one or more arguments, make sure to use the '--' delimiter. 
.br
Here, results are stored into the directory given by the user. 
.TP
maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> -df
Display the list of functions coming from the experiment directory into the terminal. 
.br
The function display mode allows to localized where are the hot functions of the application. 
.TP
maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> -df -cc=exe
Display the list of functions coming from the experiment directory into the terminal. 
.br
The -cc=exe (--callchain) option allows to display the callchains. 
.br
The function display mode allows to localized where are the hot functions of the application. 
.TP
maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> -df -dt -of=csv -op=$PWD/help_example
Generate a CSV file (-of=csv) for each thread (-dt) with the functions info (-df) into $PWD/help_example (-op=...). Specified directory for -op option must exist. If not, files will not be created. 
.TP
maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> -dl
Display the list of loops coming from the experiment directory into the terminal. 
.br
The loop display mode pinpoints hot loops in application. 
.TP
maqao lprof -xp=<EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY> -of=html
Generate the "html" directory into <EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY>/html. 
.br
Open file <EXPERIMENT_DIRECTORY>/html/index.html in a web browser to view the results. 
.SH AUTHOR
Written by The MAQAO team.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <contact@maqao.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
MAQAO (C), 2004-2022 Universite de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines (UVSQ), 
is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (GNU LGPL). MAQAO is 
free software; you can use it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General 
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 
of the License, or (at your option) any later version. This software is distributed 
in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the 
implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the 
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

The full legal text of the GNU Lesser General Public License (GNU LGPL) is available
at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
maqao(1), maqao-madras(1), maqao-disass(1), maqao-cqa(1), maqao-oneview(1), maqao-analyze(1), maqao-mil2(1), maqao-otter(1), maqao-mil(1)
